---
layout: post
image:  /assets/images/blog/post-5.jpg
mathjax: true
title: "[Autonomy devcourse 1$_{st}$] Linux"
last_modified_at: 2023-04-27
categories:
  - Paper review
tags:
  - Autonomy-driving
  - dev
excerpt: "Dev course review"
use_math: true
classes: wide
---

## 1. Introduction
- \- All electronic devices such as computers and smartphones are composed of hardware and software.
   - \- Hardware (HW): everything physically in an electronic device
   - \- Software (SW): A collection of commands given to a computer to achieve a specific purpose
- \- When using the software, the computer's CPU, RAM, and other hardware are used to perform the operation requested by the user.
   - \- At this time, the Operating System (OS) allocates hardware resources as needed for the software.
     - \- The operating system manages limited hardware resources such as CPU and RAM and mediates between HW and SW.
     - Ex. Windows, MAC, Android, IOS etc.
- \- Linux is also an operating system
   - \- An operating system based on UNIX by Linus Torvals, a Finnish SW engineer.

## 2. Why use Linux?
- \- **Open source**
   - \- Linux is an open source operating system
   - \- Anyone, whether an individual or a corporation, can install and use Linux for free.
   - \- open source movement

- \- **Customizing**
   - \- Linux strictly means the Linux kernel.
     - \- The kernel is a part of the OS that performs the core functions of the OS.
   - \- Only the core functions that Linux OS needs to perform are defined, and the other parts can be customized and used by the user according to his/her own use.

- \- **Stable operation**
   - \- Since it is open source, various users can verify it in real time.

## 3. Linux(UNIX) Required Commands
### 3.1. CLI(Command Line Interface) commands
   - \- Made for i18n (internationalization)
   - \- UTF-8 is used as the default character set
   - \- It is recommended to use the en_US locale as it is affected by the setting of the LANG environment variable

#### **File**
- \- **Path command**
    - $pwd$: print working directory
    - $cd$: change directory
      - \- /: root directory
      - \- ~: home directory
      - \- -: previous directory
- \- **Path type**
  - \- Absolute path (abs-path): path starting from the root directory
  - \- Relative path: path starting from the current directory (.)

- \- **Check**
  - \- ls, file, stat, which, find
  - \-    
- \- Change data
   - \- cp, mv, rm, mkdir/rmdir, ln
- \- Meta change
   - \- chmod, chown
- \- Archive
   - \- tar
- \- Compress
   - \- gzip, zstd

#### Text
- \- Editor
   - \- vim(vi)
- \- Filter
   - \- cat(tac), head, tail, less/more, sort
- \- Regex
   - \- grep, sed, awk

#### Job control
  - \- jobs, fg, bg

#### process control
  - \- kill, pkill, pgrep, strace(tracing)

#### Networking
  - \- nc (net cat), curl, wget

#### Disk
  - \- df

#### System
  - \- free, top, ps, pidstat, lshw

### 3.2. Admin commands

#### Package
- \- Redhat: rpm, yum
- \- Debian: dpkg, apt

#### Network
- \- status: ss, netstat(old fashion)
- \- config: nmcli, ip
- \- ssh
- \- packet: tcpdump, wireshark, tshark

#### Files and kernel
- \- lsof
- \- sysctl

#### Disks
- \- fdisk, parted, mkfs, mount, lsblk, blkid, grubby, udisksctl

#### User
- \- useradd, groupadd, usermod
- \- passwd, chpasswd

## 4.